# Tat cli
I’m going to write a blog post or something about why I think the design is a good idea at some point. Probably after I have a working cli prototype. But the basic premise is: projects are useful for grouping and filtering tasks, but project hierarchies are artificial; tasks should be able to belong to more than one project, and taking time thinking about how to structure a project hierarchy is a waste of time.

My proposed solution is to replace “projects” (in the Todoist sense) entirely with tags (more similar to Todoist labels). Tags can indicate inclusion in projects, but also encompass things like people that are involved in a task, where a task can be done, priority for the task, broad categories like “work”, “personal”, “fun”. The immediate problem with ditching hierarchical projects is that you lose the concept of a subproject. For example if I search for all my “work” tasks, then I want subprojects of “work” such as “some-work-project” to appear as well. The naive solution to this is to tag everything that you tag as “some-work-project” also as “work”. But staying consistent with this would be a nightmare and it would be a waste of time since you know that everything in “some-work-project” is already conceptually a part of “work”.

We can solve the project hierarchy problem by introducing a “subtag” preorder on tags (a reflexive and transitive relation). Then for each tag, we can keep track of subtags of that tag, and consult this list in any filters of the tasklist. This is strictly more powerful than having a tree of projects, since one tag can be a subtag of many other tags.

## High level technical overview
Written in Haskell. Tat will consist of a core module that handles the modification of and querying of the task list (and eventually the set of tag relationships too). We will also have auxiliary save/load code that reads and writes the task list to file, and i/o code that gets user input from the console and serves results to stdout. Settings (such as where to store the user data, since I’d like to store this on Dropbox) will be retrieved from `~/.tatrc
